# i3lock with usb protection

This is a quick rundown on what the `lock` script does.

**NOTE** - the rest of the script, that surrounds the `sudo bash` commands and the python calls, is used to make the screen actually lock, you can skip over it, if you want to.

Since modern Linux kernel versions have disabled the option the stop the power supply to your USB's, we have to rely on the power of `udev` and `udevadm`. What we are trying to achieve is simple, when `i3lock` is running, make sure that the `OS` is not accepting or reading any USB's. Although `udev` reads a lot of configuration for a lot of pieces of hardware, we are going to tell it to disable to access to some of the buses.

First of all, we need to understand which USB ports are used by our machine, since some transfer audio data, other video data, etc, it's a good idea to not wing it and randomly select a USB device. That being said, there are several ways that we can check our ports. `udevadm info -a -p /sys/bus/usb/devices/usb*/X-X` gives a detailed description of your devices. You might notice that some of them are `wlan`s, video ports, etc. `cat /sys/bus/usb/devices/usb*/X-X/authorized` will return either **1** (for being on) or **0**, which tells us if this device is turned on or not (logically). `lsusb` and `lsusb -t` give out similar information in a more neat way, but it's not as detailed. Of course, `ls /sys/bus/usb/devices/` digging in this folder is very beneficial, because we can get familiar with our devices.

After some test commands, we are aware under what USB number are our ports. We can take a simple approach and just disable them, yes, all of them. Everything that is not already plugged in, will not be accepted by our `OS`. Keep in mind that the system *will* know about it if a device is inserted, but it will not allow access to it. We can do this by the command `sudo bash -c "echo 0 > /sys/bus/usb/devices/usb3/authorized_default"`. When we call this, until we do a `reboot` or call the reverse command (which is `➜ sudo bash -c "echo 1 > /sys/bus/usb/devices/usb3/authorized_default"`), our USB ports are rendered useless. If you are feeling adventurous, you can play around with this, `grep` specific devices, like mice and keyboard, and *whitelist* them.

As far as the `python` script goes, we are using a package `pyudev` that listens for such connections. If it happens to see a USB connect, while the PC is locked, it will execute the great sounds of **The Prodigy**, thus scaring off any malicious hacker (other acceptible songs that will fit nicely are [the speech by Jules from Pulp Fiction](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pRE23YfSvc8) and [the opening scene from "Full Metal Jacket"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3j3_iPskjxk)). The script is dependent on `mplayer`, so make sure you have that as well.

For a more detailed information about how we might approach this problem, you can check out the amazing paper by [Adrain Crenshaw](http://www.irongeek.com/i.php?page=security/plug-and-prey-malicious-usb-devices#3.2_Locking_down_Linux_using_UDEV).
